Faculty Navigation Module
Overview
This module implements a cost-effective, offline-capable navigation system for the University Faculty premises. It is designed to guide students and visitors from the main entrance (Security Room) to various departments and facilities using OpenStreetMap (OSM).

Unlike standard GPS apps, this feature locks the camera to the faculty boundaries and provides specific, pre-defined walking paths to ensure users stick to main roads.

Key Features
1. Zero-Cost Mapping Solution
Switched from Google Maps to OpenStreetMap (OSM): Removed the dependency on paid API keys (Google Maps Platform).

Library: Uses flutter_map for rendering and latlong2 for coordinate handling.

Advantage: completely free for educational use and development.

2. Smart "Faculty Lock" Mode
Geofencing: The app monitors the user's live location stream.

Trigger: When the user comes within 50 meters of the Security Room, the app enters "Faculty Mode."

Action:

The camera automatically zooms in (Level 19.0) to show details.

The map locks to the faculty boundaries, preventing the user from drifting away to irrelevant areas.

Padding is applied to the bottom of the map to ensure the UI cards don't cover the map content.

3. "Smart Path" Routing Algorithm
Since free routing APIs are often unreliable for small internal roads, a custom local routing logic was implemented:

Logic: Instead of drawing a straight line through buildings, paths are routed through a "Main Junction" node.

Flow: User Location -> Main Junction -> Destination.

Result: Navigation lines look realistic and follow the main road network.

4. Interactive Places Directory
Horizontal Card List: A swipeable list of locations (Departments, Canteen, Library, Hostels, etc.) appears at the bottom.

Sync:

Swiping a card automatically selects that location on the map.

Tapping a card zooms the camera directly to that building (Zoom Level 20.0).

Visual Feedback: The selected marker turns red and enlarges, while others remain standard.

Technical Implementation
Core Dependencies
YAML
dependencies:
  flutter_map: ^6.0.0      # Rendering the map
  latlong2: ^0.9.0         # Handling LatLng coordinates
  geolocator: ^10.1.0      # Live GPS tracking
Key Functions
_enterFacultyMode(): Handles the UI transition when entering the premises (Zoom, Constraint, SnackBar).

_calculateSmartPath(start, end): Generates the polyline points for the navigation path.

fitCamera: Dynamically adjusts the view to fit the faculty bounds while respecting UI padding.
 Locations Mapped
The system currently supports navigation to 15+ internal locations, including:

Admin & Security: Security Room, Admin Building.

Academic: DMME, DEIE, DCEE Departments, Library, Workshop.

Facilities: Main Canteen, Guest House, Playground, Basketball Court.

Accommodation: Hostels A, B, and C.

Usage Flow
Start: User opens the map outside the faculty.

Approach: User walks towards the Security Room.

Trigger: App detects proximity (<50m) and snaps to "Faculty View."

Navigate: User swipes the bottom cards to find "Main Canteen."

Path: A blue dotted line appears, guiding the user along the main road to the canteen.

Developed by EG/2022/5136 for the ARWayz Project.
